TOPIC:STRUCTURE OF WEB BROWSER

Web Browser is an application software that allows us to view and explore information on the web. User can request for any web page by just entering a URL into 
address bar.Web browsers can show text, audio, video, animation and more. It is the responsibility of a web browser to interpret text and commands contained in the
web page.Earlier the web browsers were text-based while now a days graphical-based or voice-based web browsers are also available
		Technically,A Web browser is referred to as an application that provides access to a Web server. Depending on the implementation, browser 
capabilities and thus structures vary. A Web browser, at a minimum, consists of an Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) interpreter and HTTP client that is used to 
retrieve HTML Web pages.Besides this basic requirement, many browsers also support FTP, NNTP, e-mail (POP and SMTP clients), among other features, with an 
easy-to-manage graphical interface.
Main components of Web Browser`s are:

1.User Interface
  It provides the methods with which a user inter-acts with the Browser Engine.This includes the address bar,back/forward button,bookmarking menu,etc.Every part of
the browser display except the window where you see the requested page.

2.The Browser Engine
  It marshals actions between the UI and the rendering engine.This provides a high-level interface to the Rendering Engine.The Browser Engine provides methods to
initiate the loading of a URL and other high-level browsing actions (reload,back,forward).The Browser Engine also probides the UI with various messages relating to 
error messages and loading progress.

3.Rendering Engine
  It produces the visual representation of a given URL.The Rendering Engine interprets the HTML,XML,and JavaScript that comprises a given URL and genreates the 
layout that is displayed in the UI.A key component of the Rendering Engine is the HTML parser,This HTML parser is quite complex because it allows the Rendering 
Engine to display poorly formed HTML pages. Diffent browsers use different rendering engines:Internet Explorer uses Trident,Firefix uses Gecko,Safari uses WebKit.
Chrome and Opera use Webkit(bofore is Blink).

4.Networking
 It provides funtionality to handle retrieval of URLs using the common Internet protocols of HTTP and FRP,THe Netweorking components handle all aspects of Internet 
communication and security,character set translations and MIME type resolution.The Network component may  implement a chache of retrieved documents to 
minimize network traffic.

5.JavaScript Interpreter
 This component executes the JavaScript code that is embedded in a webiste.Result of the execution a passed to the Rendering Engine for display.The Rendering 
Engine may disable various actions based on user defined properties.

6.The UI backend
-Used for drawing basic widgers like combo boxes and windows.
-Underneath it uses operationg system user interface methods.

7.The Data Storage
 It manages user data such as bookmarks,cookies and preferences.The new HTML specification(HTML5) defines 'web database' which is a complete (although light)
database in the browser.