TOPIC:PROGRAMMING PARADIGM

-By definition,Programming paradigm represents the format or style or regulations of any specific
language.
-Its more dependant on the way of programming than refer to a specific language.
	For ex. , In Python, Identation is something very important for the loops and other conditions
to read the specifications and instructions.But in other languages like in java or C language
indentation is merely a obligation to just make it more readable for the other programmers.
This strategy that you need to follow while implementing.This strategy in itself is known as 
paradigm.

->In short,Programming paradigms are a way to classify programming languages based on their features.

-There are basically two types of paradigms:
 1.Imperetive Programming Paradigm    
 2.Declarative Programming Paradigm

A.Imperetive Programming Paradigm
  This paradigm is about writing a list of instruction to tell the computer what to do step by step.In 
  an imperative programming paradigm, the order of the steps is crucial, because a given step will have
  different consequences depending on the current values of variables when the step is executed.

-This goes to be divided in 3 more sections:
  1.Procedural Programming Paradigm 
  2.Object Programming Paradigm 
  3.Parallel Programming Paradigm 

1.Procedural allows splitting those instructions into procedures.Note:Procedures are not functions as they 
  do not need to necessarily return a value and just to accomplish a task and cause required operation needed.
  e.g. For loops

2.Object PP allows you to work with objects which are an instance of a class.It is The program is written as a 
  collection of classes and object which are meant for communication. The smallest and basic entity is object 
  and all kind of computation is performed on the objects only. More emphasis is on data rather procedure. It can
  handle almost all kind of real life problems which are today in scenario.

3.Parallel processing is the processing of program instructions by dividing them among multiple processors.
  A parallel processing system allows many processors to run a program in less time by dividing them up.
  Languages that support the Parallel processing approach:
 -NESL (one of the oldest ones)
 -C
 -C++

B.Declarative Programming Paradigm
  This programming paradigm is defined on the basic need to what needs to be accomlished by programmer without the specification 
  of its implementation details.It just declare the result we want rather how it has to be produced like imperetive PP.
  
-They are divided in 3 types as well:
  1.Logic Programming Paradigm
  2.Functional Programming Paradigm
  3.Database Programming Paradigm

1.Logic Programming is not made of instructions-instead it uses everything its given and comes up with scenarios in which it all 
  adds up to solve the problem or question given infront of us.
  It can be termed as abstract model of computation. It would solve logical problems like puzzles, series etc. In logic
  programming we have a knowledge base which we know before and along with the question and knowledge base which is given to machine,
  it produces result.
		     In logical programming the main emphasize is on knowledge base and the problem. The execution of the program is
  very much like proof of mathematical statement, e.g., Prolog.

2.Functional PP has in recent years gained popularity because of JavaScript which has its roots in maths and language is independent.
  The key principle of this paradigm is execution of a series of mathematical functions.In the functional programming paradigm, the
  functions do not modify any values outside the scope of that function and the functions themselves are not affected by any values
  outside their scope. Data are loosely coupled to functions.The function hide their implementation. Function can be replaced with
  their values without changing the meaning of the program.e.g.Javascript,perl.

3.This programming methodology is based on data and its movement. Program statements are defined by data rather than hard-coding a
  series of steps. A database program is the heart of a business information system and provides file creation, data entry, update,
  query and reporting functions. There are several programming languages that are developed mostly for database application.
  For example SQL.